　一：中华人名共和国的成立
中华人民共和国成立后，文学开始繁荣。来自当时的苏联(Soviet Union)和西方国家的作品大大影响了中国文学。这一时期作品的主题包括革命历史和国家建设的新生活。最的作品是《红岩》(The Red Rock)和《茶馆》。1978年改革开放后，中国文学又迎来了一次新的繁荣，中外文化交流空前繁荣。今天，中国当代文学也越来越为各国人民所关注。
After the founding of People's Republic of China,literature began to boom.Works from Soviet Unionthen and western countries exerted a profoundinfluence on the Chinese literature.The themesexpressed in the works of this period coveredrevolution history as well as the new life of nation's construction.The best known works areThe Red Rock and Teahouse.After the Reform and Opening up in 1978,Chinese literature won anew prosperity with sino-foreign cultural exchanges flourishing as never before.Today, Chinesecontemporary literature is drawing more and more attention of the people of the world.　　
1.中华人民共和国成立后，文学开始繁荣：“成立”可译为found,如“创办学校” 可译为found a school。found与动词find(找到)的过去式和过去分词同形，但词义不同，使用时需要注意。此处译作名词形式founding。“开始繁荣”可译为began to boom。　　
2.这一时期作品的主题包括革命历史和国家建设的新生活：这句话的主语可译为the themes expressed in theworks of this period。谓语可译为 cover,意思是 “包括，涵盖”。宾语则是“革命历史和国家建设的新生活”，其中“革命历史” 译为revolution history。　　
3.中国文学又迎来了一次新的繁荣，中外文化交流空前繁荣：“迎来”可译为won。“中外文化交流”可译为sino-foreign cultural exchanges。“频繁和深入”可以用 flourishing来表示。 

二.中国的黄梅戏
　黄梅戏(Huangmei Opera)源于湖北省黄梅县的采茶歌曲，连同京剧、越剧 (Yue Opera)、评剧(Ping Opera)和豫剧(Yu Opera)是中国的五大戏曲。它最初是以一种简单的载歌载舞的戏剧形式出现的。后来，随着饱受洪水灾害的灾民，黄梅戏传到了安徽省安庆市。它吸收了徽剧和当地歌舞的元素，发展到了今天的形式。黄梅戏以一种[新的风格反映了普通居民的生活，受到了群众的喜爱。 来源无忧考网：
Huangmei Opera was originated from tea pickingsongs in Huangmei county, Hubei province.It is oneof the Five Operas in China together with BeijingOpera, Yue Opera, Ping Opera and Yu Opera.It firstappeared as a simple drama of song and dance.Later, it was spread to Anqing city, Anhui province by immigrating victims of floods. Absorbingelements of Anhui Opera and local songs and dances, Huangmei Opera was developed to thepresent form. It enjoys great popularity among the masses by reflecting the life of ordinarypeople in a fresh style.　　
1.黄梅戏源于湖北省黄梅共的采茶歌曲，连同京剧、越剧、评剧和豫剧是中国的五大戏曲:后半句可以理解为“黄梅戏是中国五大戏曲之一”，即 Huangmei Opera is one of theFive Operas in China。再翻译句子的剩余部分连同京剧、越剧、评剧和豫剧”时，可将其着作是句子的状语，译为together with Beijing Opera, Yue Opera, PingOpera and Yu Opera。　
　2.它最初是以一种简单的载歌载舞的戏剧形式出现的:“简单的载歌载舞的戏剧形式”可译为a simple dramaof song and dance。　　3.后来，随着饱受洪水灾害的灾民，黄梅戏传到了安徽省安庆市:该句可译为被动句，其中主干则是it wasspread to...by immigrating victims of floods 来

三.中国的印章
中国的印章篆刻(seal carving)始于古代，贯穿于整个秦朝。篆刻的印帝最初是作为皇帝的玉玺(imperial seal)来使用的。皇家的印章被称为玺(Xi)并且只能由皇室成员使用。秦朝之后，更多不同种类的印章出现了。它们作为个性化的印戳用于私人用途。这些非官方定制的印戳被称为印(Yin)。在唐朝，由于迷信(superstition),印章的名称被改称为宝，理由是玺的发音与另一个表示“死亡”意思的汉字类似。 
Chinese seal carving first appeared in ancient times and was used throughout the Qin Dynasty. It was initially employed as an imperial seal named Xi. These imperial seal carvings were used only by the royalty. Following this dynasty, more different kinds of seals appeared and were used by private folks as personalized stamps. These non-official stamps were called Yin. During the Tang Dynasty, the seals was renamed Bao as a result of superstition since the pronunciation of Xi is similar to that of another Chinese charactcr which means death.　　
1.篆刻的印幸最初是作为皇帝的玉玺(imperial seal)来使用的:该句可译为被动句，谓语是"最初是作为…使用”，其中“使用”可用employ来表示，属于正式用语，故可翻译为was initially employed as。　　
2.由于迷信，印章的名称被改称为宝:“由于”可译为becauseof或as a rcsult of, 这两个短语后面都接名句或动名词。 

四.中国经济的发展
中国自20世纪70年代实行改革开放政策以来，经济一直以惊人的速度发展。粮食、肉类、钢等工农业产品的产量一直在显著增长;原子能(atomic energy)、计算机技术、航空航天(aviation and aerospace)技术等方面也已经达到世界先进水平。预计到21世纪中叶，中国将基本实现现代化，达到中等发达国家的水平。目前，中国经济发展水平的地区差异较大，东部沿海地区比较发达，而西部地区相对不那么发达。中国正在进行西部大开发(Western Development Strategy),以缩小各地区的经济发展差异。　　
参考翻译:　　Since China implemented the reform and opening-up policy in the 1970s,its economy has keptdeveloping at a remarkably high speed. The outputof the industrial and agricultural products, such asgrain, meat and steel etc., has been growingmarkedly. And the technologies of atomic energy, computer, aviation and aerospace havereached the world advanced level. It is predicted that China will basically realizemodernization and reach the level of the medium-developed countries by the middle of the21st centuiy. Currently, China's economic level varies widely among regions. The areas alongthe east coast in China are fairly developed, while those in the west are comparativelyunderdeveloped. Due to this, China is carrying out the Western Development Strategy so as tonarrow down the economic gaps between different regions.　　
1.改革开放政策:可译为the reform and opening-up policy。　　
2.以惊人的速度:可译为at a remarkably high speed。　　
3.达到世界先进水平:可译为reach the world advanced level。　　
4.预计:可使用It is predicted that…结构表达。　　
5.基本实现现代化:可译为basically realize modernization。　　
6.中等发达国家:其中“中等发达”可译为medium-developed,故该处译为medium-developed country。　　
7.东部沿海地区:可译为areas along the east coast。　　
8.以缩小各地区的经济发展差弃:其中“缩小”可用narrow down来表达，故该句可译为so as to narrow down the economic gaps between different regions。其中so as to意为“以便，以使”。

五，岳阳楼
岳阳楼(Yueyang Tower)矗立在湖南省岳阳市洞庭湖岸边，是“江南三大名楼”之一，另外两座分别是滕王阁(TengwangPavilion)和黄鹤楼(Yellow Crane Tower)。自古以来，岳阳楼一直有“岳阳天下搂”之称，与有“洞庭天下水”之称的洞庭湖齐名。最初岳阳楼主要是军用的，用于指挥海上舰队以及举行阅兵仪式 (military review)。的《岳阳楼记》由北宋伟大的作家范仲淹所作，它使岳阳楼声名远播，成为中国南方的景点。岳阳楼的结构在中国古代建筑是独一无二的，具有无与伦比的艺术价值。　　
参考翻译:　　Standing on the shore of Dongting Lake in YueyangCity of Hunan Province, Yueyang Tower is one of the“three famous towers in the south of the YangtzeRiver”，the other two being Tengwang Pavilion andthe Yellow Crane Tower.Since ancient times, YueyangTower has been enjoying the title of “the best tower on this planet”，having equal status with“the best lake on earth”一Dongting Lake. Originally, Yueyang Tower was mainly for military useas directing marine troops and for military reviews. The well-known On Yueyang Tower by thegreat writer of the Northern Song Dynasty, Fan Zhongyan, brought great fame to YueyangTower far and wide, making it a well-known scenic spot in South China. The structure ofYueyang Tower is unique in the architectural history of ancient China, holding unparalleledartistic values.　　
1.矗立在湖南省岳阳市洞庭湖岸边：可译为Standing on the shore of Dongting Lake in Yueyang City of Hunan Province。现在分词作状语，表明岳阳楼的位置。　　
2.江南三大名楼：看似比较难翻译，但实际上“江南”就是“长江南边”，“三大名楼”就是“三个有名的‘楼’”，译为three famous towers in the south of the Yangtze River即可。　　
3.“岳阳天下楼”和“洞庭天下水”：这句也一样，可译出其表达的意思即可，译为 the best tower on this planet和the best lake on earth。　　
4.与...齐名：可译为 having equal status with…　　
5.使岳阳楼声名远播，成为中国南方的景点：可译为brought great fame to Yueyang Tower far and wide, making it a well-known scenic spot in South China。　　6.独一无二的：译为unique即可，还可以用unmatched表达。 

六，智能手机
目前，中国年龄在18岁至30岁之间的人口数量约为2.7亿，该年龄段人群智能手机(smartphone)拥有率{达92%,远{于全球67%的平均水平。据统计，中国城镇居民全年人均(percapita)可支配收入(disposable income)为24565元，平均每月2047元，工作三个月才买得起一部5288元的iPhone 5。而2012年前10个月美国实际人均可支配收人为32653.1美元，平均每月3265美元，一个月就可以买16部199美元的iPhone 5。按此计算，美国在iPhone 5的消费力方面是中国的48倍，而智能手机普及率(coverage)仍被中国超过，由此可见中国人对智能手机的巨大热情。　　
参考翻译:　　Currently,there are about 270 million people agedbetween 18 and 30 in China,and the owning rate ofsmartphone among this age group is up to 92%,farabove the global average of 67%.According tostatistics,the annual per capita disposable incomeof Chinese urban residents is 24,565 yuan,with average monthly income per capita being 2,047yuan.That means,urban residents can afford an iPhone 5 with a price of 5,288 yuan afterworking for 3 months.Whereas,during the first 10 months in 2012,actual per capita disposableincome in America is 32,653.1 dollars,with average monthly income per capita being 3,265dollars.That tells us,American people can afford 16 iPhones 5 by working only for onemonth.Calculating in this way,American people's consumptive power of iPhone 5 is 48 timesthat of Chinese people.But the coverage of smartphone in America is still surpassed byChina,from which Chinese people's great enthusiasm towards smartphone is obvious.　　1.目前:可用currently或at present表达。　　
2.年龄在18岁至30岁之间的人口数量约为2.7亿:可译为there are about 270 million people aged between18 and 30。　　
3.城镇居民全年人均可支配收入:其中“人均”可译为percapita,“可支配收入”可用disposable income表达。　　
4.买得起：用afford―词表达。　　
5.智能手机普及率仍被中国超过:“普及率”可用coverage表达，“超过”可用surpass或overtake表达，故该处译为the coverage of smartphone is still surpassed by China。 

七.伪劣产品
　假冒伪劣产品(fake and shoddy products)在国际上被视为“仅次于贩毒(drug trade)的世界第二大公害(nuisance)”。假冒伪劣被认为是中国当前的社会问题，其危害巨大。假冒伪劣产品是指质量低劣或者失去使用性能的产品。假冒伪劣从形式上看，主要是假冒产品，以劣充优，以假充真;从类别上看，主要是家电、烟、酒、服装、药品、食品、化妆品等，涵盖了消费者的衣食住行用，并且这些大多是涉及人身安全健康的产品，其潜在的问题令人担忧。　　
参考翻译:　　Fake and shoddy products are seen as the secondlargest public nuisance after the drug trade in theworld. They are the most serious social issue incurrent China which are of great hazard. Fake andshoddy products refer to those products that are inpoor quality or functional performance. As to the form, fake and shoddy products aremainly in the guise of brand-name products, but are sold as genuine and quality goods. As tothe category, fake and shoddy products mainly include household appliances, cigarette, wine,clothes, medicine, food and cosmetics etc., which cover clothing, food, shelter, transportationand daily supplies. What's more, those products are related to the security and health ofpeople, so the potential problems are worrisome.　　
1.假冒伪劣产品：可译为fake and shoddy products。　　
2.被视为：可译为be seen as或be regarded as。　　
3.仅次于贩毒的世界第二大公害：可译为the secondlargest public nuisance after the drug trade in theworld。“仅次于”译为after;“贩毒”译为drug trade;“公害”译为public nuisance。　　
4.从形式上看：可译为as to the form。其中as to意为“就...而论”。　　
5.以劣充优，以假充真：即“将假冒伪劣产品充当真货和高质量产品卖出”，故可译为...are sold as genuineand quality goods。　　
6.涉及人身安全健康：可译为be related to the security and health of people。　　
7.潜在的问题：可译为potential problems。 

八.消费观念
70年代，中国人曾以有一件外国衬衣和一块进口电子手表而自豪。那时候，国产商品在外观和功能方面无疑都远远逊色于外国品牌产品。“崇洋媚外”在中国消费者心里打下了烙印。随着中国的现代化科技、经济和国力的发展，今天的国产商品从外观、质量、科技含量等各个方面都得到了飞跃，不少产品已优于同类的外国品牌。中国消费者对外国品牌从仰视，到平视，最后甚至会俯视。消费者心理正在发生改变，逐步回归理性消费。
　　参考翻译:　　In the 1970s, Chinese people were proud of owningan imported shirt and an imported electronic watch.At that time, domestic products were inferior toproducts of foreign brands both in appearance andfunction. The idea of worshipping and having blindfaith in foreign things has been deeply rooted in the Chinese consumers. With the developmentof modern science and technology, economy and national strength in China, domestic productsat present have made a leap in appearance, quality, elements of science and technology.Many domestic products are even superior to the similar products in foreign brands. Chinesepeople's attitude toward foreign products has changed from admiration to objectiveness, andfinally even to contempt. The psychology of consumers is changing and people are graduallycoming back to rational consumption.　　
1.以...而自豪：可用be proud of…表达。　　
2.逊色于：可译为be inferior to。其反义词组为besuperior to,表示“优胜于”。　　
3.得到了飞跃:可译为have made a leap in。其中leap意为“激增，剧增”，可表达“飞跃”之意。 